:::::::::::::::
:: BLACKJACK ::
:::::::::::::::


[OBJECT OF THE GAME]
Each participant attempts to beat the dealer by getting a count as
close to 21 as possible, without going over 21.
Card Values/Scoring
It is up to each individual player if an ace is worth 1 or 11.
Face cards are 10 and any other card is its pip value.


[BASIC STRATEGY]
Winning tactics in Blackjack require that the player play each
hand in the optimum way, and such strategy always takes into
account what the dealer's upcard is. When the dealer's upcard is a
good one, a 7, 8, 9, 10-card, or ace for example, the player
should not stop drawing until a total of 17 or more is reached.
When the dealer's upcard is a poor one, 4, 5, or 6, the player
should stop drawing as soon as he gets a total of 12 or higher.
The strategy here is never to take a card if there is any chance
of going bust. The desire with this poor holding is to let the
dealer hit and hopefully go over 21. Finally, when the dealer's up
card is a fair one, 2 or 3, the player should stop with a total of
13 or higher.
With a soft hand, the general strategy is to keep hitting until a
total of at least 18 is reached. Thus, with an ace and a six (7 or
17), the player would not stop at 17, but would hit.
The basic strategy for doubling down is as follows: With a total
of 11, the player should always double down. With a total of 10,
he should double down unless the dealer shows a ten-card or an
ace. With a total of 9, he should double down only if the dealer's
card is fair or poor (2 through 6).
For splitting, the player should always split a pair of aces or
8s; identical ten-cards should not be split, and neither should a
pair of 5s, since two 5s are a total of 10, which can be used more
effectively in doubling down. A pair of 4s should not be split
either, as a total of 8 is a good number to draw to. Generally,
2s, 3s, or 7s can be split unless the dealer has an 8, 9, tencard,
or ace. Finally, 6s should not be split unless the dealer's
card is poor (2 through 6).


[BETTING]
Before the deal begins, each player places a bet, in chips, in
front of him in the designated area. Minimum and maximum limits
are established on the betting, and the general limits are from $2
to $500.


[THE DEAL]
When all the players have placed their bets, the dealer gives one
card face up to each player in rotation clockwise, and then one
card face up to himself. Another round of cards is then dealt face
up to each player, but the dealer takes his second card face down.
Thus, each player except the dealer receives two cards face up,
and the dealer receives one card face up and one card face down.
(In some games, played with only one deck, the players' cards are
dealt face down and they get to hold them. Today, however,
virtually all Blackjack games feature the players' cards dealt
face up on the condition that no player may touch any cards.)


[NATURALS]
If a player's first two cards are an ace and a "ten-card" (a
picture card or 10), giving him a count of 21 in two cards, this
is a natural or "blackjack." If any player has a natural and the
dealer does not, the dealer immediately pays that player one and a
half times the amount of his bet. If the dealer has a natural, he
immediately collects the bets of all players who do not have
naturals, (but no additional amount). If the dealer and another
player both have naturals, the bet of that player is a stand-off
(a tie), and the player takes back his chips.
If the dealer's face-up card is a ten-card or an ace, he looks at
his face-down card to see if the two cards make a natural. If the
face-up card is not a ten-card or an ace, he does not look at the
face-down card until it is the dealer's turn to play.


[THE PLAY]
The player to the left goes first and must decide whether to
"stand" (not ask for another card) or "hit" (ask for another card
in an attempt to get closer to a count of 21, or even hit 21
exactly). Thus, a player may stand on the two cards originally
dealt him, or he may ask the dealer for additional cards, one at a
time, until he either decides to stand on the total (if it is 21
or under), or goes "bust" (if it is over 21). In the latter case,
the player loses and the dealer collects the bet wagered. The
dealer then turns to the next player to his left and serves him in
the same manner.
The combination of an ace with a card other than a ten-card is
known as a "soft hand," because the player can count the ace as a
1 or 11, and either draw cards or not. For example with a "soft
17" (an ace and a 6), the total is 7 or 17. While a count of 17 is
a good hand, the player may wish to draw for a higher total. If
the draw creates a bust hand by counting the ace as an 11, the
player simply counts the ace as a 1 and continues playing by
standing or "hitting" (asking the dealer for additional cards, one
at a time).


[THE DEALERâ€™S PLAY]
When the dealer has served every player, his face-down card is
turned up. If the total is 17 or more, he must stand. If the total
is 16 or under, he must take a card. He must continue to take
cards until the total is 17 or more, at which point the dealer
must stand. If the dealer has an ace, and counting it as 11 would
bring his total to 17 or more (but not over 21), he must count the
ace as 11 and stand. The dealer's decisions, then, are automatic
on all plays, whereas the player always has the option of taking
one or more cards.
Signaling Intentions
When a player's turn comes, he can say "Hit" or can signal for a
card by scratching the table with a finger or two in a motion
toward himself, or he can wave his hand in the same motion that
would say to someone "Come here!" When the player decides to
stand, he can say "Stand" or "No more," or can signal this
intention by moving his hand sideways, palm down and just above
the table.


[SPLITTING PAIRS]
If a player's first two cards are of the same denomination, such
as two jacks or two sixes, he may choose to treat them as two
separate hands when his turn comes around. The amount of his
original bet then goes on one of the cards, and an equal amount
must be placed as a bet on the other card. The player first plays
the hand to his left by standing or hitting one or more times;
only then is the hand to the right played. The two hands are thus
treated separately, and the dealer settles with each on its own
merits. With a pair of aces, the player is given one card for each
ace and may not draw again. Also, if a ten-card is dealt to one of
these aces, the payoff is equal to the bet (not one and one-half
to one, as with a blackjack at any other time).


[DOUBLING DOWN]
Another option open to the player is doubling his bet when the
original two cards dealt total 9, 10, or 11. When the player's
turn comes, he places a bet equal to the original bet, and the
dealer gives him just one card, which is placed face down and is
not turned up until the bets are settled at the end of the hand.
With two fives, the player may split a pair, double down, or just
play the hand in the regular way. Note that the dealer does not
have the option of splitting or doubling down.


[INSURANCE]
When the dealer's face-up card is an ace, any of the players may
make a side bet of up to half the original bet that the dealer's
face-down card is a ten-card, and thus a blackjack for the house.
Once all such side bets are placed, the dealer looks at his hole
card. If it is a ten-card, it is turned up, and those players who
have made the insurance bet win and are paid double the amount of
their half-bet - a 2 to 1 payoff. When a blackjack occurs for the
dealer, of course, the hand is over, and the players' main bets
are collected - unless a player also has blackjack, in which case
it is a stand-off. Insurance is invariably not a good proposition
for the player, unless he is quite sure that there are an
unusually high number of ten-cards still left undealt.


[SETTLEMENT]
A bet once paid and collected is never returned. Thus, one key
advantage to the dealer is that the player goes first. If the
player goes bust, he has already lost his wager, even if the
dealer goes bust as well. If the dealer goes over 21, he pays each
player who has stood the amount of that player's bet. If the
dealer stands at 21 or less, he pays the bet of any player having
a higher total (not exceeding 21) and collects the bet of any
player having a lower total. If there is a stand-off (a player
having the same total as the dealer) then no chips are paid out or
collected.


[RESHUFFLING]
When each player's bet is settled, the dealer gathers in that
player's cards and places them face up at the side against a clear
plastic L-shaped shield. The dealer continues to deal from the
shoe until he comes to the plastic insert card, which indicates
that it is time to reshuffle. Once that round of play is over, the
dealer shuffles all the cards, prepares them for the cut, places
the cards in the shoe, and the game continues.
